Ecobank Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), has said its workplace is free of bias and gender-based discriminations. Speaking on the anniversary of International Women’s Day (IWD), Head, Human Resources, Ecobank Nigeria, Adekunle Adewuyi, stated that the bank as a responsible organization, has in place structures for ensuring all women can reach their full potential and have equal opportunities to men in advancing their careers and achieve promotion in the bank. Only recently, EcobankGroup (Ecobank.com), the leading pan-African bank won the highly coveted Best Place to Work in Africa 2022 Award from the Best Place to Work organisation. The Award honours organisations that exhibit the highest standards of excellence in Human Resources (HR) practices and employees’ experience. According to him, “Female staff are holding strategic leadership and management positions in the organization. We are committed to creating a society and workplace that is free of bias and gender-based discrimination. As part of our IWD 2023 celebrations, we will be organizing health screening for our female staff in four different locations including Lagos, Ibadan, Abuja and Port Harcourt. We will also host a Health Talk for female employees, who as at today constitute 51 percent of our workforce.” he stated. Mr. Adewuyi further stated that the choice of this year’s theme #EmbraceEquity was apt, adding that while celebrating women and girls championing transformative technology and digital education, IWD 2023 will also address the impact of the digital gender gap in widening economic and social inequalities. “It is the responsibility of all of us to make transformative technology and digital education inclusive. At Ecobank, our digital solutions aim to respond to the needs of all our clients, including women and women entrepreneurs. The Ecobank Foundation has partnered with organisations – such as UN Women and the Global Partnership for Education – that leverage on digitalisation to address the gender gap.” IWD is a global holiday celebrated annually on March 8 as a focal point in the women’s rights movement, bringing attention to issues such as gender equality, reproductive rights, and violence and abuse against women.