Kamala Harris, Vice President of the United States, is scheduled to visit Ghana, Tanzania, Zambia, among other African countries later this month, according to a statement from her office. Nigeria is not, however, one the counties she’s scheduled to visit during the tour. This comes on the heels of the administration’s effort to bolster its relationships with African countries, as competitors like Russia and China have made inroads in the region. In a statement signed by Harris’ press secretary Kirsten Allen, the VP trip will “strengthen the United States’ partnerships throughout Africa and advance our shared effort on security and economic prosperity”. “Vice President Kamala Harris and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will travel to Accra, Ghana; Dar es Salaam, Tanzania; and Lusaka, Zambia from March 25 to April 2. “The Vice President’s visit will build on the recent U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit that President Biden hosted in Washington in December 2022. The trip will strengthen the United States’ partnerships throughout Africa and advance our shared efforts on security and economic prosperity. “Throughout the trip, in partnership with African governments and the private sector, the Vice President will advance efforts to expand access to the digital economy, support climate adaptation and resilience, and strengthen business ties and investment, including through innovation, entrepreneurship, and the economic empowerment of women. “The Vice President will meet with President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana, President Samia Hassan of Tanzania, and President Hakainde Hichilema of Zambia to discuss regional and global priorities, including our shared commitment to democracy, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, food security, and the effects of Russia’s unprovoked war in Ukraine, among other issues. “The Vice President will strengthen people-to-people ties and engage with civil society, including young leaders, business representatives, entrepreneurs, and members of the African Diaspora,” the statement read.