Cultural Credibility Development Initiative (CCDI), an elite sociocultural organization based in Lagos State, has endorsed Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivor, governorship candidate of the Labour Party in the state ahead of the March 18 election, noting that he is the best man for the job. The group which communicated the endorsement in a statement at the weekend, noted that Rhodes-Vivour has what it takes to reverse Lagos from being a touted dilapidated mega city to a true modern city devoid of thugs. “As former capital of Nigeria, Lagos has lost its finesse and accoutrements in cleanliness, good road infrastructures, water utilities, electricity supply, industrial hub, export potentials by sea cargo and start ups to a state bedeviled with wanton lawlessness, street urchins and derelicts, extortion, de-industrialisation, divestment, and gross mismanagement of resources,” the group said in the statement signed by its president, Ide Goddy Uwazurike, and secretary, Steve Nwabuko. “The great vision of our forebears to build Lagos as an anchor for turning Nigeria into a first World nation in Africa has been deconstructed into a phoney gamble of personal aggrandisement, extravagance, egotism, grandstanding and luxuriant imperatives that has thrown the common man into the streets of poverty and joblessness instead of the classroom of Knowledge, skill and creativity that bestrode Pa Obafemi Awolowo’s highly respected eclectic dictum of human capital reinvigoration, resulting in Lagos state having more than two million out of school children in the 21st century. “Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, a graduate of Architecture from the much revered Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T) in the USA having been raised from an acclaimed and decent Indigenous EKO family of original Lagos, has character, capacity, competence, stability of mind, credibility, trustworthiness, tenacity of purpose, strength to work and vision to relaunch A New Lagos in the 21st century. “As with New York, New Jersey and New London, so shall a New Lagos happen under the watch of Gbadebo Rhodes Vivour as the next Governor of Lagos state by the special help and grace of God.” The group expressed confidence that the Labour Party candidate if elected, would bring about a new Lagos “bereft of thugs, touts, Area boys, Agberos or other names the call themselves.” Among its expectations of a new Lagos, the group said it wants a governor to give the state “a unique power generating system that guarantees daily electricity supply. “Open up mainland Lagos and the suburbs with good roads and drainage systems to forestall perennial flooding. “Provide a level playing ground for all to ventilate our skills, start-ups, creativity, innovation and knowledge economy for businesses to thrive as hallmark of New city State. “Provide digital security and hybrid urban planning to remove Lagos as the third worst and most dangerous place to live on earth according to international global risk assessment agencies. “Create employment for youths and turn Lagos to sports and entertainment hub in Africa.”