Omolaraeni Olaosebikan, Group CEO, McEnies Global Communications, has added her voice to the commemoration of 2023 edition of the International Women’s Day, just as she said gender equality has to be prioritised and pursued to create societal balance. The Ekiti born entrepreneur in an interactive session with some brand and business editors at her Ibadan corporate head office on Wednesday explained that the International Women’s Day celebration provides the world with the opportunity to celebrate the socio-economic, and political accomplishments of women particularly in Nigeria. She maintained that more needed to be done to ensure provision of health, education, employment to women and the vulnerable, adding that the development of women, youths and children should never be taken for granted, judging from the pivotal roles they play in national and international advancement. She equally noted that the theme of this year’s celebration; ‘DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality’ did not only identify the critical role of women in sustainable development, “But also signifies the role of women as mothers, sisters and daughters in engineering sustainable development in Information Technology and Communications.” She added that: “There is urgent need to carefully and intentionally focus on closing gender gaps in science, technology, and innovation among the female folks. The role cannot be effectively executed without promoting partnerships and collaborations in the provision of education, health and empowerment to women and youth. Omolaraeni continues: “As women, we have to take the bull by the horn and make the change happen by ourselves. As women, you need to go out there and fight for what you need to get and get where you want to be.” She went further to say that: “Government across board needs to play their parts through introduction of right legislations; NGOs, traditional, academic and religious institutions also have very serious roles to play by ensuring that women both old and young are encouraged, empowered and given the opportunities to tap into their talents and energy so that they can continuously make productive use of their potentials through the aid of digital and technological initiatives for societal growth on a daily basis so that the future can be secured. “Meanwhile, women also need to rediscover themselves and stop settling for the erroneous narrative that they are weaker vessels. We must continue to break barriers, champion the cause of gender equality both inside and outside of our organizations, homes and religious settings, leveraging the strengths of our businesses and operations, and using our scales and advertising voices to address the menace of gender bias and enabling and broadening education for girls and women’s economic empowerment all the time.” Omolaraeni stated