The Lagos State chapter of Ohanaeze Ndigbo has backed Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of the state for second term. Sunday Ossai, president of the association in the state declared the support at a meeting in Ikeja on Thursday. During a joint media briefing concerning the March 11 governorship election, Ossai said the group declared its support for the governor because he had fulfilled his campaign promises to its members. He promised that Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Lagos would reciprocate the kind gesture of the governor by ensuring that its people vote massively to secure his re-election. He also condemned and distanced the group from a statement calling for the resignation of the governor credited to one Okechukwu Isiguzoro. He said the call did not come from the official body of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, or the Lagos chapter and asked that the statement be dismissed. “As president of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Lagos, I am a representative of Ndigbo in the state and as their mouthpiece, I hereby debunk the so-called statement that the Igbo body asked Sanwo-Olu to resign,” NAN quoted him as saying. “If Ndigbo is asking for anybody to become governor of the state, it is Sanwo-Olu, because of the cordial relationship that we enjoy together. “He represents everything that Ndigbo needs to exist in Lagos. He has been very kind to us. He has implemented friendly policies that enable us to execute our businesses and our professional calling without fear or favour. “Why should we tell him to resign? He should not resign. If the constitution permits a third tenure, Ndigbo will strongly support Sanwo-Olu. “With Ndigbo, Sanwo-Olu should go and sleep with his two eyes closed as they will vote for him.” Jane Okoro, the woman leader of the group, assured the governor that the entire women structure in the 57 LGAs and local council development areas (LCDAs) of the state will be mobilised to support his re-election. Okoro appealed to women not to allow their children to be used as political thugs in the forthcoming elections.