Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor, has expressed shock and sorrow over the early morning accident, on Thursday, involving a train and a Lagos State Government staff bus, which happened between Shogunle and Ikeja, axis of the state. Meanwhile, three persons have died, while over 84 others sustained various degrees of injuries in the accident, according to Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA. The Governor, who expressed sadness, registered his sincere condolences to the families of those that lost their lives in the accident, praying that God would grant them eternal rest. He also put his reelection campaign on hold over the incident. According to Sanwo-Olu: “I am deeply saddened by the news of the accident. The vehicle was conveying staff of the Lagos State Government, our staff who serve the state in different capacities. “Let’s say a prayer for the families and a prayer of mercy and protection for our state. “My thoughts are with the victims and their families during this difficult time.” Governor Sanwo-Olu, however, expressed appreciation to residents who assisted the state’s first responders in the search and rescue operation, saying “the true spirit of Lagos must be sustained at all times.” He added: “A big thank you to well-meaning Lagosians who immediately joined in rescue efforts. Our first responders and emergency services are on the ground and we will share more information shortly.” According to Permanent Secretary, LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyitolu, “on the arrival of the agency’s response team at the scene of the incident, investigation gathered revealed that the immediate cause of the incident was due to reckless driving from part of the BRT bus driver while trying to beat the train road signal before the moving train rammed into the BRT bus. “Unfortunately, three adults (two females and one male) were confirmed dead and 84 people were seriously injured. “The injured victims have been administered first aid treatment by the agency’s medical team (paramedics) and LASAMBUS officials and were well stabilized before being transported to Ikeja General Hospital and trauma center for further treatment. “The agency pre-hospital care unit, LASAMBUS officials, Nigeria Police Force, LASTMA, LNSC, and Nigerian Army are responders present at the scene of the incident.” As of press time, 11 am, the affected bus has been removed from the tracks and the train has been recovered by the LASEMA crane. Normal activities have been restored around the accident scene as traffic experiences free flow toward Ikeja. 