The Ebonyi State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has accused David Umahi, governor of the state, of sharing state funds to selected individuals in bid to induce voters ahead of Saturday’s governorship and state assembly elections. Abia Onyike, director of media and publicity, PDP Campaign Council in the state who said this in a statement on Monday, noted that the governor was promoting a culture of false generosity using public funds. “We seize this opportunity to advise Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State to stop promoting a culture of false generosity in the state,” Onyike said. “We condemn the use of public funds to share to selected individuals in the name of APC last minute campaigns.” Onyike also accused the governor of plotting to impose his younger brother as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The PDP chieftain noted that if Umahi were sincere to himself and the people of Ebonyi State, “let him tell us why he decided to wage a vicious war of hunger against thousands of retired civil servants who had served the state meritoriously but we’re denied their gratuities since 2015 when Umahi assumed office as the Governor of the state.” According to him, “Umahi’s wicked war of attrition against the retirees and some civil servants who were denied their promotion entitlements, was responsible for the increasing percentage of poverty and sudden deaths in the state. “His attitude of running from pillar to post to share money to people under the guise of campaigning for votes is the most shameless act of false generosity. “We equally warn Gov. Umahi to stop his usual habit of self-serving declaration for National Offices which later turns into an instrument for siphoning public funds into private pockets. “Even as the crises generated by his controversial Senate election is yet to be resolved, Gov. Umahi has already started deceiving the people with a fake Senate Presidential ambition. “Even if Gov Umahi survives the legal hurdles and gets into the Senate, he knows that he would not qualify for the post of a Presiding Officer or Principal Officer of the Senate. He would never even qualify, as a first timer, to be the Chairman of a Senate Committee. “The so-called campaign being embarked upon by Umahi is a calculated strategy to loot public funds, as was the case during his recent ill-fated Presidential primaries during which several trailer loads of rice and yams, worth billions of naira of public funds were sent to the Northern states to lobby leaders for his failed presidential bid. “Ebonyi people are equally aware of Gov Umahi’s last minute maneuvers to impose his younger brother as the Guber candidate of APC. “Let Gov Umahi address Ebonyians about the situation of things regarding the Governorship candidature of APC. Sooner than later, Umahi’s secret agenda would be uncovered. “Gov Umahi’s plans to clamp down on opposition figures, mainly the PDP in Ebonyi South have been uncovered. Let him try and exhaust his numerous machinations, Ebonyi people are watching and ready to vote for candidates of their choice in Saturdays’s elections.”