A Kano Magistrate Court on Wednesday remanded Alhassan Ado Doguwa, majority leader of the House of Representatives in Goron-Dutse correctional centre pending the determination of his bail application. Doguwa is standing trial for alleged criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide, unlawful possession of fire arm, mischief and public disturbance. The house member who was brought to the Magistrate court, Nomansland around 3.30pm was docked. The prosecution counsel had applied to the court to remand the suspect at a correctional facility, pending the conclusion of investigations on the matter by the state’s Attorney General. The accused’s counsel, Barrister Abdul Adamu, however, argued that he should be granted bail on self-recognition as a member of the House of Representatives as well as member-elect of the 10th National Assembly. The presiding magistrate, after hearing arguments from both sides on the bail application, adjourned the case to March 7. However, during the arraignment on Wednesday evening the Senior Magistrate, Ibrahim Mansur Yola, after listening to his Counsel and that of prosecutor, gave his ruling He ordered that the majority leader should be remanded in the Correctional centre till March 7th, 2023 for hearing of the bail application. The Kano Police Public Relation Officer ( PPRO) SP Haruna Kiyawa had said the force received complaint on the gruesome murder of three persons, causing grievous injury to eight others in Tudun Wada LGA on 26/02/2023 while the collation of election results was ongoing He stated that in response to an alleged viral video of some of the victims with suspected gunshots in the Social Media, the Commissioner of Police in charge of 2023 General Election, Kano State Command, CP Muhammad Yakubu directed the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Kano State Police Command to carry out a thorough investigation. “In continuation of the investigation, on 27th February 2023, the Department extended a formal invitation to Doguwa, a member representing Doguwa/Tudun Wada Federal Constituency for his alleged complicity in the incident,” he said. “Sequel to his refusal to honour the invitation, the Command was left with no other option than to activate a motion that would lead to his arrest. “He was subsequently arrested by detectives from the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) Bompai Kano at Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano. “Investigation is ongoing, the suspects arrested will soon be charged to court for prosecution, and the effort to get others at large is being intensified. “While the Commissioner of Police appreciates the good people of Kano State for their peaceful conduct in maintaining law and order during the concluded Presidential and National Assembly Elections and its aftermath” He said the Command is reiterating its commitment to safeguarding lives and properties of the ‘’Kanawan Dabo’’. Accordingly, the CP demonstrated his willingness to tame any subversive element(s) or actor(s) no matter how highly placed, if they are out to disrupt the existing peaceful atmosphere being enjoyed in the State.