With no shred of doubt, Sandra Ogbahor’s insightfulness has influenced her rising and intimidating profile, this is a feat that has incredibly made many to describe her as a serious-minded entrepreneur known for creating opportunities where there seem to be none. After almost two decades of operation in the highly competitive hospitality business environment, she successfully recorded significant milestones through her in-depth knowledge of commercial focus, operational effectiveness, team member engagement, talent development and a passion to deliver the best possible guest experience that is uncommon and indelible. As an alumnus of the prestigious Lagos State University, Sandra remains the embodiment of Nigerian entrepreneurial spirit, her focus, endurance and commitment to a prosperous Nigeria and indeed Africa have marked her out for greater glory. She is currently the General Manager at BON Hotels Nest Bodija, Ibadan Oyo State, and also recently promoted as Regional Manager. Sandra possesses a wealth of hotel management experience which includes new openings, across all major brands as well as standalone hotels. Manages a range of operations of 4 star grading facility, Service spanning multiple geographies/cultures and focuses on building strong owner relationships through superior performance and two-way transparent communication. Added to her corporate strength is the fact that she’s knowledgeable in budget creation, implementation and also ability to deal with control issues by providing long lasting solutions. Her hotel career experience started with known multinational hotel chain and it has panned through almost two decades building her to understand the best and top flight ways to manage top stars hotels/facilities offering the best way to profitability in hospitality. Similarly, her record is replete with creation of tailor-made customer experiences. She is a culturally adept hospitality professional, upholding and over delivering on the white glove standard of 4-Star global brands. She identifies talents for operational efficiency and implementing methods to optimize daily workflows. Sandra is a goal-oriented Manager, highly adept at recruiting, hiring, placement and training teams to achieve shared objectives. She is a resourceful problem solver, a good listener with a commitment to improving customer experience. She has transferrable skills for general management and operations. Rich with marketing strategy and contents. She constantly seeks to take advantage of various marketing channels including social media, digital, emailing, contest, content development and management to create maximum brand visibility. She is passionate about ensuring that ROI is optimized across all sales platforms. Sandra has taken advantage of most global classroom trainings and on the job trainings which has significantly enhanced her distinctly way of making critical business decisions, helping to add values to every bottom-line and increasing Key Performance Indicators on all fronts. She is a Business Development Professional of a good stand with class and finesse. She has worked and still working with reputable hotels and global chain hotels, such as Pennisula Resorts, Belissimmo Hotel, Protea Hotels by Marriott and BON Hotels Hospitality Group. Truly, Sandra epitomizes hard work, perseverance, doggedness, humility, diligence and patriotism. The fact that she treasures the virtue of thorough and genuine loyalty to any cause she believes in, gives her the cutting edge.