By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo As women all over the world commemorate this year’s International Women’s Day, Osun State first lady, Mrs Titilola Adeleke has harped on the imperative of greater women involvement in politics and governance. Mrs Adeleke spoke during a programme organised to mark the annual International Women’s Day in her Ede country home. According to her, participation of women in decision making in all areas of life would further enhance the living standard of women. The Osun first lady reiterated the committment of the administration of governor Ademola Adeleke in improving the economic environment in which women in the state would have access to more services and opportunities that would boost the economic profile of their families. She added that Governor Adeleke’s administration has also been able to widen the participation of women in politics, noting that politics is a crucial sector of the State that has direct bearing on the day-to-day living of women. “I have been able to increase the tempo of political awareness among our women and the number of women given opportunities to serve in various positions,” she said. “We will not rest on our oars. We are in the electoral period. Participation in elections is a key to enhancing the dividends of democracy available to our women. “I therefore urge our women to rise up again and troop out Saturday March 18, 2023 to cast their ballots for our representatives in the House of Assembly. “This election is vital to all the electoral work we have been doing since July 16, 2022. We need to put the house in our control for the good work to be reignited again in Osun very soon as we cannot afford to be lethargic at the moment. Let us not stay back in our houses during the elections.” Delivering a lecture at the programme, Mrs Abimbola Dunsin urged the women to adequately taking care of their homes, adding that the duty of a woman is to ensure there is no laxity in her home. She stressed that, “as a woman, you must take good care of your kids and most especially your husband in all facets. Your husband should not lack anything, morally, sexually, etc.” Abimbola also enjoined women participating in politics to be trustworthy and submissive to their husbands, saying participating in politics should not affect their duties at home. Highlights of the programme included distribution of food items to some vulnerable women in the state.