Idowu Olakunle, Abeokuta The Ogun State chapter of the Labour Party says it cannot associate with the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State because the ruling lacks purposeful leadership. The Labour Party made its stance known through its Publicity Secretary in the state, Mr Tokunbo Peter at the weekend, while reacting to its alleged endorsement of the incumbent governor of the state, Prince Dapo Abiodun who is the governorship candidate of the party for Saturday’s election. Peters explained in a statement made available to journalists that the purported endorsement of the governor by some suspended Labour Party members in the state is dubious, atrocious and grievous. Peters emphasized that the purported endorsement as not only misleading, but also a poor attempt at hoodwinking unsuspecting members of the public and the electorates into believing that the Labour Party is in alliance with the APC in the state. “For the records, the Ogun State branch of the Labour Party categorically disassociates itself from the purported endorsement of Prince Dapo Abiodun for second term and also unequivocally states that even though overtures have been made to the Labour Party by the ruling party, the Labour Party is totally averse to any form of alliance with the APC,” he added. “This is considering the fact that the APC government in the state lacks purposeful leadership. Moreso that the Labour Party is already in court with the APC in respect of the manipulated results of the last presidential election.” He explained further that, “It is public knowledge that Engr Lookman Jagun is the defacto Chairman of the Caretaker Committee of Labour Party in Ogun state and that Michael Ashade who allegedly endorsed the governor has been suspended from the party long ago. While Michael Ashade and his cohorts are free to endorse and support any candidate of their choice in their individual capacity, but they should refrain from using the name of the Labour Party when making such endorsements.” The LP Scribe reminded those behind the said endorsement that impersonation and deliberate misrepresentation were criminal offences, adding that a constituted authority like the State Government should not be seen to be condoning and accommodating impostors for expected political gains. “The Labour Party has suffered incalculable injustice by the non listing of her candidates in the State elections and is doggedly pursuing redress to the systemic disenfranchisement through the court process,” Peters noted He assured that the Labour Party would continue to promote the ideals of good governance, social welfare and service delivery ,saying that at the appropriate time,the Party would make an open endorsement of its preferred candidate for the gubernatorial election,consequent on the eventual non listing by INEC of its gubernatorial candidate. “However, whoever the Labour Party chooses to endorse will be in the interest of the good people of Ogun state who have long been suffering under the present APC government,” Peters concluded