Charles Soludo, governor of Anambra State has denied allegations that he had been contracted to eliminate Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party. According to Soludo, as the governor, he remains the father of Anambra by his position and will not plot or collude to harm any lawful citizen of the state including Obi. The governor stated these through his Press Secretary, Christian Aburime, who spoke to journalists in Awka, on Monday, while reacting to a viral message on social media which alleged that Soludo had been contracted to eliminate Obi for a fee. There has been a report circulating online, titled, ‘Hold Soludo responsible if anything happens to Peter Obi’, saying that Soludo’s hatred for Peter Obi and everything he stands for is becoming glaring as things unfold. The report read, “Yesterday, a Helicopter entered Awka by 1:30 am and took Soludo to a secret meeting at Government House, Owerri. The agenda of the meeting is Peter Obi and how to stop him physically, politically and otherwise. “Soludo was given Five Million Dollars in 100 dollar bills for the hatchet job and Soludo promised to eliminate Peter Obi…,” it said. However, Aburime, while reacting, dismissed the report as infantile, nauseating, mischievous, unnecessarily inflammatory and a figment of the imagination of the authors. He said, “None of the allegations is true. The governor has been in Anambra State engaging stakeholders for the Saturday election. “The general public is advised to disregard the allegations as falsehoods. Ndi Anambra should also disregard all the insinuations in the write-up as mere falsehoods, they should come out massively and vote APGA this Saturday for the state House of Assembly election in order to sustain the developmental strides of the present administration of governor Soludo. “If certain people could sit somewhere and cook up a story of this nature, it becomes highly reprehensible and certainly deserved to be condemned by every right-thinking person. “I want to state categorically that there is no iota of truth in that write up, he did not go to Owerri and he was not offered any sum of money to harm anyone, not even his brother, Mr Peter Obi, an illustrious son of Anambra. “Soludo wishes Obi well, he appreciates Anambra voters for supporting him massively, of course, he predicted his victory in Anambra and remember, there was no form of violence or electoral malfeasance in Anambra Anambra, that speaks a lot about the peaceful nature of Soludo.” Aburime urged the Anambra people and Ndigbo home and abroad to disregard the information, noting that it is a plot to cause chaos in the forthcoming State Assembly election in the southeast geopolitical zone of the country. He called on the Inspector general of police, Usman Alkali Baba, to immediately commence an investigation on the alleged report with a view to fishing out the perpetrators. 