By Farouk Mohammed The 2022 edition of “#DecemberIssaVybe” by FirstBank, Nigeria’s premier financial institution, has stood the test of time as it yet again created exciting opportunities for individuals and families to come together to celebrate the end of the year. The listed events promoted by the Bank birthed memories that will be hard to fade off one’s mind for many years. From Culturati to Beeta Arts Festival Abuja, Koffi Tha Guru Unorthodox, Duke of Shomolu Production’s Encore, Our Duke Has Gone Mad Again and Ufok Iban, FirstBank had fun goers granted opportunities to relive many exciting moments. These had many people memorably end 2022 as they were able to see their favourite act perform Live for the first time. Other activities supported were: Joromi: The Musical Concert; Osamede, Awo and Ufok Iban by Duke of Shomolu Productions, Kizz Daniel Live in Concert, Asake Live as well as Vibe on the Beach, featuring Nigeria’s musical sensation Big Wiz and many others. In order to expose fans to make the most of these experiences, FirstBank organized several contests on social media as many followers won VIP tickets for the concerts. The campaign provided a range of memorable homecoming experiences, particularly for the ”I Just Got Backs” (IJGBs) as the DecemberIssaVybe created a platform for these individuals to come together and celebrate their homecoming. Undoubtedly, the heights of the campaign included the Kizz Daniel Live in Lagos concert held on Saturday, December 17th at the Eko Convention Center, then Asake’s on Friday, December 23rd at the same venue. Vibes on the Beach featuring Big Wiz (Wizkid) on Friday, December 30th at Landmark Beach, Oniru, Lagos also added spice to the excitement. In addition to providing these memorable experiences, FirstBank also demonstrated its commitment to its stakeholders by generously rewarding attendees with the sum of 1 million naira. This act of generosity further showcases the bank’s dedication to supporting the arts and enabling memorable experiences for its stakeholders. The decision to reward some attendees with this sum highlights the bank’s commitment to going beyond functional products and benefits for its stakeholders and providing unique and exciting experiences. Overall, the “#DecemberIssaVybe” campaign is a testament to FirstBank’s commitment to supporting the arts and providing enabling opportunities for its stakeholders. The bank’s dedication to going beyond functional products and benefits for its stakeholders and providing these types of enabling experiences sets it apart in the industry and solidifies its position as a leader in not just directly supporting the arts and entertainment industry but economically impacting its value chain. Anyone not following the Bank is surely on a long thing but hey, it is never too late as there are still many excitements the Bank creates on its social media ecosystem via @firstbanknigeria (Instagram); @FirstBankngr (Twitter) and First Bank of Nigeria Limited (Facebook). 2023 will surely be another back-to-back hit as the financial giant creates more memorable fun for its customers and followers. Culled from Okay NG