Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has said that talks with his political allies on the presidential candidate to support the February 25 election will soon be concluded. Wike spoke at St. Martin’s Anglican Church, Omagwa Town, the venue of the local government campaign flag-off rally of the Rivers State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Ikwerre Local Government Area on Tuesday. The governor noted that the beauty of the forthcoming election is that it will leave no room for any form of electoral manipulation and intimidation from security personnel. “This time, no army will do anything. No Fakorode will do any thing. No police will do anything. “Now, it is one man, one vote. All the votes must be in one basket from the governorship to the House of Assembly. The other one we are concluding. When we conclude, you will be told. “Nobody should intimidate you. Nobody should tell you any story. We are free-born in this country. We are not second-class citizens. Nobody can tell us anything. “I dare them. Let anybody do any funny thing, We’ll tell them we are from Rivers State. “As we finish from here now, you’ll go home and start working before the appropriate time when we will ring the bell. When you hear the bell ringing, know that the decision has been taken”, Wike told the crowd. The Rivers governor said the successes of his administration is what the consolidation team, to be headed by the PDP governorship candidate, Sir Siminialayi Fubara, will consolidate and therefore, should be elected to continue from where he will stop. Wike told the people of Ikwerre Local Government that in 2015 and 2019 he came to seek their support, made promises, and fulfilled all of them with development projects evenly distributed in all 13 political wards. The governor said the members of the consolidation team he is asking the people to vote into power are men and women with the capacity to continue the tenets of good governance and will certainly not disappoint them. In his address, the Rivers State PDP governorship candidate, Sir. Siminialayi Fubara, said he is part of the administration of Governor Wike that has provided good governance and driven unequal infrastructural development agenda. Fubara pointed out that a vote for him will further be an expression of confidence in what Governor Wike has done, which he will consolidate when elected. “The few roads that are remaining in Ikwerre local government, we will do it. Your health services we will improve and upgrade them. “On security, you know those days when they kidnap in Elele, they will enter Ubima Forest. Today, we have been able to smoke those criminals out and you have peace”. The Director General of Rivers PDP Campaign Council, Felix Obuah, said Rivers people have witnessed the tremendous performance of Governor Wike in office and voting for Sir Siminialayi Fubara and other PDP candidates will ensure consolidation of the successes of the Wike administration. Chairman, Rivers State Chairmen of PDP, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, who presented flags to the various candidates contesting various positions in the Rivers East Senatorial District, described Governor Wike as the leader of the people and emancipator of the downtrodden.