Chief Obi Aguocha, the Labour Party candidate for Saturday’s Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency election in Abia State, has alleged plot by the People’s Democratic Party to steal his mandate. Aguocha, in a statement on Sunday, alleged that Chinedum Orji, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for the constituency, in connivance with his father, TA Orji, a former governor of the state, are planning to manipulate the results already uploaded on INEC portal. “My attention is drawn to a scheme by my defeated opponent, Mr Chinedum Orji (Ikuku) and his distressed father, Senator Theodore Orji, to manipulate the BVAS and alter the result of Saturday’s Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency election already uploaded,” the statement said. “Some dependable Independent National Electoral Commission officials have admitted to being coerced by the proxies of the father and son to alter the numbers on the result sheets in the three LGs, especially Ikwuano, for monetary inducement. “I want to use this medium to warn the desperadoes (who would not accept their rejection in good fate) to discontinue as we are poised to repel such an evil machination at any cost. We have had enough of the subjugation and humiliation of our people and the subversion of their wishes. “The Ikwuano/Umuahia constituents have spoken in unison. The massive votes cast for the Labour Party and me in Saturday’s National Assembly election and the wide margin recorded in almost all the polling units are evidence of their resolution to pull down the evil empire that has enslaved them for 16 years. “INEC is under obligation, as an unbiased umpire, to uphold the people’s victory as expressed through the ballots and not instrumental to their despair. The voice of the people is the voice of God. My victory is not a stroke of serendipity. It is divine. “In the spirit of democracy, I expect my defeated brother, Ikuku and his father to accept the wish of our people and concede defeat for the first time in the history of their political career than the otiose effort to suborn INEC officials. “I, therefore, urge our people to remain calm but be on alert to ensure that affiliation does not arise the second time.” 