The Labour Party, the Peoples Democratic Party, and the African Democratic Party have asked the Chairman of the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, to resign. The three parties in a joint press conference on Tuesday, in Abuja alleged that the February 25, 2023 presidential election was marred with violence, rigging and intimidation of voters. The parties demanded the conduct of a fresh election. “We are therefore constrained on this development to state that INEC compromised the integrity of this elections even before collation commenced at the polling units,” LP National Chairman, Julius Abure, who delivered the position of the three opposition parties, said. “Section 60 sub-section 5 of the Electoral Act says that the presiding officer shall transfer the results, including total number of accredited voter and the results of the ballots in a manner as prescribed by the commission. “A failure to comply with the provisions of the Electoral Act and the guidelines makes it imperative that all results recently uploaded on the IReV portal must be updated before they are announced. “INEC went back on that promise…This election is not free and far from being fair and transparent. “We shall not be part of the electoral process currently going on at the National Collation Centre and we demand that this sham of an election be immediately cancelled. “We also call for a fresh election to be carried out in accordance to the laid down INEC procedure. We therefore call on Yakubu to step aside from his role.” The parties asked Yakubu to step aside from his role as INEC Chairman for a “credible personality” outside the commission to take his place and oversee the process that would be acceptable to all stakeholders and will restore the confidence of the international community, the democratic process and institutions. “We have a responsibility to the millions of Nigerians who put their faith in us and our presidential candidates to defend our country from the forces that seek to tear us apart. “We are calling on President Mohammadu Buhari to stand by his promise to Nigerians to leave a legacy of free, fair, transparent and credible elections to the country . “President Buhari this is the time of great test of your integrity use your office to save Nigeria from this electoral mismanagement and save your legacy that seek to mar your democratic legacy.” 