Fidelity Bank Plc has appointed Pamela Shodipo as executive director of its south directorate after regulatory approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The bank which announced the appointment in a statement said Shodipo joined the board of Fidelity Bank with over 25 years of multifunctional and cross-border banking experience at leading financial institutions, covering general management and business origination in diverse segments including corporate, commercial, consumer, retail and public sector. “We are pleased to have Pamela Shodipo join the board of Fidelity Bank Plc. Her diverse experience across multiple functions in the banking industry is a welcome addition to the board at this time. “We are optimistic that she would play a key role in our quest to deliver prompt, value-adding and financially empowering services to our growing customer base,” said Chairman, Board of Directors of Fidelity Bank, Mustafa Chike-Obi, remarked. According to the statement, Shodipo commenced her professional career at International Standard Insurance Limited in January 1991, from where she joined United Commercial Bank Limited in 1992 as a customer service officer. In April 1997, she joined Zenith Bank Plc, where she worked until September 2007, rising to the position of an assistant general manager, before joining United Bank for Africa Plc as a regional director in October 2007. She also worked with UBA, where she headed various Regional Banks. She was elevated to the position of General Manager in 2017 and had direct supervisory responsibility for up to 28 Branch Managers. Between October 2020 and November 2021, she was directorate head of Lagos 3/Public Sector, before her appointment as managing director/chief executive officer of UBA Benin Republic, where she served from December 2021 to November 2022. Shodipo was the head of personal banking for the UBA Group, overseeing Nigeria and Africa until her appointment to the board of Fidelity Bank Plc. The statement added that Shodipo holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology from the University of Lagos (1990) and a Master’s in Business Administration from the University of Wales College of Cardiff, United Kingdom (1995). 