The National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF) has endorsed Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, ahead of Saturday’s presidential election. The group made up of notable Christian elder statesmen advised Nigerians to vote for their ideal candidate based on capacity, ability, integrity, and good health, The forum is made up of a former Chief Of Army Staff, Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma; Dr Ayo Abifarin; Gen. Zamani Lekwot (retd); Hon. Justice James Ogebe (retd); Elder Moses Ihonde; Dr Saleh Hussaini, Vice Chairman (North); Elder Shyngle Wigwe, Vice Chairman (South). Also part of the group is Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife, Dame Priscilla Kuye, Prof. Deborah Ajakaiye, His Royal Majesty Oba Dokun Thompson, Dr Taiwo Idemudia, Hon. Justice Kalajine Anigbogu (retd.), Elder Nat Okoro, Solomon Asemota (SAN), Elder Matthew Owojaiye, DIG P. L. Dabu This call was contained in a statement endorsing Obi, titled “Resolutions towards 2023 elections: Think new”, and was signed by Forum Chairman, Dr Samuel Gani and the Secretary, Pastor Bosun Emmanuel. “The National Christian Elders Forum is endorsing Mr Peter Obi of the Labour Party as the Presidential candidate to be voted for,” it read. According to the group, the choice of the former governor of Anambra state was “In view of the need to ensure that democracy survives in Nigeria and the culture of corruption, incompetency, lawlessness, and impunity, which assailed the country in the past 24 years is eradicated.” It appreciated the efforts of the Federal government stifling major forms of election malpractices while claiming the currency quandary affecting Nigerians will soon bear fruits “NCEF commends the Federal Government for taking steps to curb vote-buying during the 2023 elections. While the policy of currency change has brought some inconvenience to the people, the long-term benefit should be appreciated,” it also added. “It is crucial that vote-buying must be prevented at all costs to prevent unqualified and incapable persons from bribing their way into power,” 