Ahead today’s presidential election, Accord Party has endorsed Peter Obi, the flag-bearer of the Labour Party (LP). The party also announced that it would be collapsing its party structure in support of Obi. This is contained in letter released by the party and addressed to Obi on Friday. The party said it was willing to join forces with the LP in delivering the mandate of LP flag-bearer and the party to win the presidential seat. The party pledged to join the Labour Party’s structure across the 774 local government areas in Nigeria to deliver the constituencies to Obi during the presidential election. The Accord Party further stated that it would engage in massive mobilisation by deploying its party members, canvassers, and voters nationwide to vote for Peter Gregory Obi. The party set a target of delivering five million votes to the Labour Party. “We have had our Candidates served in legislative positions at the State and Federal Level. Thanks to Our Party Structure across 35 Stats of the Federation for always delivering their constituencies, at every election,” the letter signed by Isaac Adeniyi, the party’s national chairman, and Alhaji Umar Abdul, the national secretary, read. “As the 2023 General Elections draws close, we have seen Candidates moving and seeking for collaboration across Political Parties in ordecloser galvanise strength and for unanimous Candidates to be elected, this is in tandem to the saying “Together We CAN”. ACCORD as a political Party is willing to join force with the Labour Party in delivering of the Mandate of Peter Gregory Obi (CON), and the Labour Party (LP) to “WIN” the Presidential Seat: ” Joining Labour Party Structure across the 774 Local Government Area to delivers the Constituencies to the Peter Gregory Obi during the Presidential Elections “We will engage in massive mobilization deploying our Party members, canvassers and voters nationwide to Vote Peter Gregory Obi (CON). “We would deliver 5 Million votes to Labour Party (LP).” The Accord Party was founded in 2006 and has had its candidates serve in legislative positions at the state and federal levels. The party has a strong presence across the 35 states of the federation and has been known to deliver their constituencies at every election. 