The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), has rejected the appointment of Naja’atu Muhammad, a former Director of the party’s Presidential Campaign Council, as the North-West coordinator of the Police Service Commission in the forthcoming general elections. Director of Public Affairs and Chief Spokesperson, Tinubu/Shettima PCC, Festus Keyamo, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. The party said it was deeply shocked by Muhammad’s appointment, adding that her selection is “callous and insensitive” considering her strained relationship with the APC The statement read partly, “We are deeply shocked and appalled to read a release by the Police Service Commission appointing one of its most partisan members, Naja’atu Bala Muhammad as a North-West coordinator of the presidential election. In that role, she is expected to move about freely, supervising the conduct of police officers during the elections. “With the well-documented activities, actions and vitriols of Naja’atu in the last few weeks against our candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (after being shown the door out of the APC as a mole) we venture to say that this appointment is not only callous, it is insensitive, openly confrontational and consequently unacceptable by the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council. “Coming at a time when President Muhammadu Buhari is constantly assuring and reassuring the world of free, fair and credible elections, it confirms our worst fears that there are functionaries of government that are actively working with the opposition to thwart the avowed commitment of Mr. President.” The APC PCC pointed out that the role given to Muhammad required an unbiased person, saying she can’t deliver in the position. The PCC then demanded her immediate withdrawal from the position, saying Muhammad should not be allowed to hold such position in any part of the country “We need not emphasise that the role given to NAJA’ATU requires a honest and unbiased individual who will discharge the duties diligently and without reproach. The nation will not get that from NAJA’ATU. “We therefore demand for the IMMEDIATE withdrawal of the name of NAJA’ATU Bala Muhammad as a coordinator of the Police Service Commission for the North-West or any region for that matter. She has an inalienable right to continue to campaign for any candidate of her choice and to vote for that candidate, but she cannot be given a garment to wear at this time that is meant only for neutrals,” the statement added. The Police Service Commission had assigned Muhammed as one of the coordinators who will supervise conduct of police officers during the general elections. The commission also appointed 44 others to deal with police officers who misbehave during the conduct of general elections across the federation.  