President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday in Katsina, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) will mobilise all of its electoral machinery to ensure the victory of its flag bearer, Bola Tinubu at the February 25 presidential election. The president called on the Emir of Katsina, Abdulmumini Usman and the Emirate Council to mobilise for Tinubu’s victory, a statement from Femi Adesina, his spokesperson, said. “We will work for his victory at the polls,” Buhari said. Adesina, disclosed this in a statement titled ‘President Buhari presents Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to Katsina Emirate Council, urges full support for victory at polls.’ Speaking at the palace of the Emir of Katsina, Buhari said “We are here to present our candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “Asiwaju has been chosen by our party, and we are fully in support of his candidature, and we will work for his victory at the polls.” Buhari also personally condoled the leaders and citizens of the state following the recent terrorist attack on vigilantes in the Bakori Local Government area of the state, in which at least 41 people were killed. He said his regime will continue to listen to wise counsel from experts, traditional rulers and political leaders on the economy, and will adopt best practices in safeguarding the interest of citizens. Meanwhile, the APC cancelled a Presidential Road Show in Katsina on Monday in the wake of the Bakori killings. Governor Masari who announced the cancellation called for special prayers for the repose of the souls of slain indigenes. He also thanked the APC presidential candidate for donating N100m to the families of all those who were affected by the attacks. The Governor expressed sympathy for families of vigilantes who were ambushed and slain by terrorists. Masari also said the killing of the 41 vigilantes will be investigated, and those involved will face the law. He warned citizens to avoid politicians that have been flagging the ethnic and religious cards saying “Our God is a God of wisdom and superior power. “If he wanted the entire world to be called Katsina, he would have done so. If God wanted all citizens black, white or red, he would have done so. He created a diverse world, and we must respect that.” On his part, the APC presidential candidate, Tinubu, condoled with the President, Governor and the Katsina Emirate Council over the terrorist attacks, promising that their loved ones will be catered for. “We will not forget them. We will not forget their children and the parents left behind. “No leader will be happy to see citizens slaughtered or hear of it. It is sad, painful and tortuous,” Tinubu said. The Emir of Katsina thanked Buhari for presenting the APC candidate to the Emirate Council and citizens of Katsina, assuring him that they will pray and mobilise for victory at the polls. He appealed to the President to look into the challenges posed by currency swaps, saying the “pain of the people, should be the pain of leadership.” Katsina will be the sixth state that the President is visiting on the APC campaign trail. Others include Adamawa, Bauchi, Plateau, Nasarawa, and Yobe states. He is expected in Sokoto on Thursday, February 9. 