By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo The Osun State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has condemned in strong terms what it said is a tensed atmosphere in which last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly Election were conducted in the State. The APC in the State alleged that pockets. of lawlessness, violence and extra-judicial killings trailed the electoral process in the State as manifested in the “severe heinous attacks on the members of the opposition across the State before, during and after the polls.” This is even as APC in the state rejected the results of the election in some parts of the State, arguing that they were not true reflection of the people’s mandate. The party commended the electorate in the State for their unflinching support, resilience, forthrightness and strong resistance in the face of naked intimidation and physical life-threatening events from the daredevil hands of the ruling party before, during and after the presidential and national assembly elections in the State. The APC in the state urged its members to remain calm just as it maintained that it would challenge the results of the elections and seek redress through legal means appropriately and adequately. Addressing a Press Conference at the popular Tinubu/Shettima Campaign Office, Osogbo, the State APC Acting Chairman, Hon. Tajudeen Lawal bemoaned the “ugly incidence of extra-judicial killings and palpable mayhem unleashed on the people of the state before, during and after the Saturday’s election saying it was a clear indication that People’s Democratic Party PDP – led government in the State was on a war front against the opposition parties particularly the APC.” He expressed total displeasure in the way and manner many of his party’s members and admirers were maimed, harassed, assaulted, humiliated and dehumanised for no just cause all in the name of winning an election. According to him, the entire structure of the APC and its members in the State were denied the level play ground to canvass for votes before the elections as it is on record that so many of the party’s members were either killed, maimed, attacked or run out of their abodes by the PDP hoodlums. 