Ecobank has rewarded four customers with N1m each for using the electronic payment channels of the bank regularly. During the cheque presentation at its super rewards event in Lagos, the bank said it introduced the programme to promote the use of its electronic payment channels that offered convenient banking. The four winners are Mr John Sokeipiriala, Ahmed Said, Onashile Obafemi, and a couple with a joint account, Mr David Edokwe and Mrs Ifeoma Edokwe. Speaking on the programme, the Head of Consumer Banking, Ecobank, Mrs Korede Adeniyi, said Ecobank was hosting the winners of the super rewards programme, which it started about two years ago. “This is the third edition. We found out that it’s been very successful; people have subscribed to it. In the process of doing this season, we’ve actually taken feedback from the customers. “This last one we did was to encourage people to save and also transact based on the digital channels, so it was just to focus people on making sure they get to the digital channels. “You and I know today that with the cash scarcity, if you’re on the digital channels, that’s something that is a very good plus for you as a customer. So today we’re rewarding four customers who won N4m. Over the three months, we’ve also reward customers for varying amounts between N50,000 and N100,000.” One of the joint account winners, Ifeoma, said she and her husband did not expect they would win a promo from the bank. She said, “When we got married, we decided that joint account is one of the things we’re going to inculcate into the marriage and we’ve been operating the accounts very well. For more than 12 or 13 years we’ve been running the joint account. “When they called us for this, we felt, this was just beyond our expectation. We were just running the account normally as a business transaction. So this is what we get as a reward for running the account very well, and I’m very happy. We want to say thank you to Ecobank, they’ve been with us for a long time.”