The Obidient Movement, a global non-partisan coalition of citizens backing the candidacy of Mr Peter Obi, the Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, has announced that it has moved to adopt governorship and state assembly candidates across the country, which the movement will support in the March 2023 state elections. In a press conference held on Wednesday, February 22, 2023 at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, representatives of the Obidient Movement led by Mr Valentine Ozigbo, the Special Adviser to Mr Peter Obi on Technology and Strategic Alliances, the movement revealed that the Obidients were watching the conduct of candidates during the presidential election and would be openly declaring support for those who work for a New Nigeria. Mr. Ozigbo, who addressed the press, made it clear that this is an independent movement of Obidients who are not being directed by Mr Obi or his running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, or the Labour Party. “We are independent of the Labour Party Campaign Council or our principal, Mr Peter Obi. This is the body of active citizens numbering millions across Nigeria who is passionately committed to this New Nigeria project,” Ozigbo said. “We are positioned to win this election for Mr Peter Obi, and we are watching to see how state election and governorship candidates treat Obidients and Labour Party supporters. “What we want is a peaceful election. We want the election to be free and fair, and transparent. We want voters to come out and exercise their civic responsibility on Saturday and be free to vote for who they want,” Ozigbo, a 2021 Anambra Governorship Election, said. Other leaders of the Obidient Movement present at the event were Dr Alphonsus Okpeke and Adayi Gabriel, representing the Coalition of Mega NGOs & Co-operative Support Group (COMENGCOSUG); Dickson Iroegbu, Convener, Indigenous People of Nigeria; Mazi Tochukwu Ezeoke, the Co-convener of the Peter Obi Support Network (POSN); Dr Paul Mo, the convener of YellOut; Amb. Jasper Emenike, National President of Progressive Ambassadors of Nigeria; among others. Responding to a question on the preparedness of the Labour Party to win the Saturday presidential election, Mr Ozigbo, revealed that the Labour Party is leveraging on technology, the strength of the youth, and the brilliance of the candidacy of Mr Peter Obi, towards winning the election. “Obidients Movement, the national citizen-led and non-partisan political movement of Nigerians supporting Mr. Peter Obi, the Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, is pleased to announce that it will carefully consider and extensively consult with stakeholders across the country to announce the adopted governorship and State Assembly candidates in States, particularly, where the Labour Party doesn’t have candidates,” the statement read. “The adopted candidates would be chosen because of their track records as honest citizens, their dedication to the welfare of their people, and most importantly, their alignment with the values and principles of the Obidients Movement and their public support for the election of His Excellency, Mr Peter Obi as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The Obidients Movement will fully back these candidates in the upcoming governorship and Houses of Assembly elections and will work hard to ensure they win as a reciprocal gesture of their support for Mr Peter Obi. “We will announce the candidates’ names before their elections and mobilize all our members, supporters, and the general public to come out en masse to vote for these candidates on March 11, 2023. “We believe that with the right leadership and good governance, as espoused by the aspiration and candidacy of Mr. Peter Obi, Nigeria can achieve its full potential and become a prosperous and thriving nation. “The Obidients Movement remains committed to this vision and will continue to work towards its realization,” the statement ended.